.TH ZRAM-INIT "8" "January 2020" "zram-init" "System Administration"
.\" {{{ SEE ALSO
.SH "NAME"
\fBzram-init\fR \- Scripts to support compressed swap devices or ramdisks with zram
.\" }}}

.\" {{{ SYNOPSIS
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B zram-init
[\fI\,options\/\fR] \fI\,SIZE\fR|\fIwrite \/\fR[\fI\,DIR\/\fR]
.\" }}}

.\" {{{ DESCRIPTION
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Prepare a zram device and use it as swap (resp. mount it under \fIDIR\fR).
.br
\fISIZE\fR is the maximal size in megabytes. For umounting/freeing the zram device, use \fISIZE=0\fR.
.br
When using \fIwrite\fR (or anything else starting with \fIw\fR) an idle writeback is forced (only makes sense if previously initialized with \fB-w\fR or \fB-W\fR \fILIMIT\fR).
.sp
If \fIDIR\fR is \- then only a filesystem is created in /dev/zram\fIDEV\fR (or the device
is removed if \fISIZE\fR is 0), but it is not mounted (options \fB\-o\fR \fB\-c\fR \fB\-m\fR \fB\-T\fR take no effect in this case, of course).
.br
The latter can be useful e.g. for btrfs if multiple devices should be mounted
jointly afterwards.
.br
.\" }}}

.\" {{{ OPTIONS
.SH "OPTIONS"
An empty argument means the same as if the option is not specified.
.TP
.BR "\-d " \fIDEV
Use zram device /dev/zram\fIDEV\fR. Default is 0 (/dev/zram0).
.TP
.BR "-D " \fINUM
If modprobe needs to be used, require \fINUM\fR devices.
.br
This is not recommended. Rely instead on \fI\,/etc/modprobe.d/zram.conf\/\fP with the line options zram num_devices=\fINUM\fR.
.TP
.BR "\-s " \fINUM
Use up to \fINUM\fR parallel compression streams for the device.
.TP
.BR "\-S " \fIMAX
Use maximally \fIMAX\fR megabytes of uncompressed memory for the device.
.TP
.BR "\-b " \fIDEV
Use \fIDEV\fR as backing device.
.TP
.BR \-I
If combined with \fB\-b\fR \fIDEV\fR, store incompressible pages to backing device.
.TP
.BR \-w
If combined with \fB-b\fR \fIDEV\fR, enable idle writeback to backing device.
.TP
.BR "\-W " \fILIMIT
As \fB-w\fR but additionally set writeback_limit to \fILIMIT\fR * 4kB.
.TP
.BR "\-a 842" | deflate | lz4 | lz4hc | lzo | zstd
Set the compression algorithm to be used for compressing data in the zram device.
.TP
.BR "\-c " \fIOWNER
Chown to \fIOWNER\fR (resp. \fIOWNER:GROUP\fR) after mounting.
.TP
.BR "\-m " \fIMODE
Chmod \fIDIR\fR to \fIMODE\fR after mounting.
.TP
.BR "\-o " \fIOPTS
Mount \fIDIR\fR with \fB\-o\fR \fIOPTS\fR.
.TP
.BR "\-p " \fIPRIO
Use priority \fIPRIO\fR for the swap device. Default is 16383.
.br
Use \fIPRIO=\-\fR if you want to keep the default priority (-1).
.TP
.BR "\-t ext2" | ext4 | btrfs | xfs
Set the filesystem type if \fIDIR\fR is specified. Default is \fBext4\fR.
.TP
.BR "\-i " \fIIRATIO
Override default bytes/inodes in fs (ext2, ext4).
.TP
.BR "\-N " \fIINODES
Override inode count (ext2, ext4).
.TP
.BR "\-L " \fILABEL
Specify the label \fILABEL\fR for the new filesystem.
.TP
.BR "\-U " \fIUUID
Specify the uuid \fIUUID\fR for the new filesystem.
.TP
.B \-T
Do not use the discard (TRIM) feature of ext4/swap.
.TP
.BR "\-K " \fIARG
Pass \fIARG\fR to the respective mkswap or mkfs.* call.
.TP
.BR "\-M " \fIARG
Pass \fIARG\fR to the respective swapon/mount call.
.TP
.BR "\-2 " \fIARG
Pass \fIARG\fR to the tune2fs call (ignored unless for ext2 or ext4).
.TP
.BR "\-Z " \fIARG
Pass \fIARG\fR to the zramctl call
.P
Use the following options with linux\-3.14 or earlier or when you want a slight
speed increase at the cost of possibly wasting a lot of memory.
.P
.TP
.BR \-l
Do not use zramctl even if available.
.TP
.BR \-k
Do no attempt to umount/free a previously used zram under this device.
.\" }}}

.\" {{{ AUTHORS
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP
Martin V\(:ath <martin at mvath.de> (developer, current maintainer)
.\" }}}

.\" {{{ SEE ALSO
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR zramctl (8),
.BR mkswap (8),
.BR mke2fs (8),
.BR mkfs.btrfs (8)
.sp
The zram-init homepage
.UR https://github.\:com\:/vaeth\:/zram-init
.UE " provides further information and links."
.\" }}}

.\" vim:set tw=90 expandtab foldenable foldmethod=marker foldlevel=0 :
